## 11.
By 2.33, suppose $U$ is a subspace of $V$, then there is a subspace $W$ such that $U\oplus W = V$.

Since $\text{null}\ T$ is a subspace, then there exists a subspace $U$ such that $\text{null}\ T \oplus U = V$.

Since $U$ is a subspace of $V$, $\{Tu \mid u \in U\} \subseteq \text{range}\ T$.

Suppose $u_1,\dots,u_m$ is a basis of $U$ and $v_1,\dots,v_n$ is a basis of $V$. Let $v \in V$, then $ v = a_1u_1+\dots+a_mu_m+b_1v_1+...+b_nv_n$.

Applying T, we get,

$Tv = a_1Tu_1 + \dots + a_mTu_m$

since $v$ is arbitrary, this implies that $\text{range}\ T \subseteq \{Tu \mid u \in U\}$. Hence, $\text{range}\ T = \{Tu \mid u \in U\}$, as desired.




## 15.
Suppose that $u_1,\dots,u_m$ is a basis for $\text{null}\ V$ and $v_1,\dots,v_n$ is a basis for $\text{range}\ T$.  
Since $v_i \in \text{range}\ T$, there exists $w_i \in V$ such that $Tw_i = v_i$.  
Let $v \in V$, then $Tv \in \text{range}\ T$.

We can write
$$\begin{align*}
Tv &= a_1v_1 + \dots + a_nv_n \\
&= a_1Tw_1 + \dots + a_nTw_n \\
&= T(a_1w_1 + \dots + a_nw_n) \\
\end{align*}$$

$$\begin{align*}
Tv - T(a_1w_1 + \dots + a_nw_n) &= 0 \\
T(v - (a_1w_1 + \dots + a_nw_n)) &= 0
\end{align*}$$

Since,
$$
v - (a_1w_1 + \dots + a_nw_n) \in \text{null}\ V
$$
we can write,
$$\begin{align*}
v - (a_1w_1 + \dots + a_nw_n) &= b_1u_1 + \dots + b_mu_m \\
v &= a_1w_1 + \dots + a_nw_n + b_1u_1 + \dots + b_mu_m
\end{align*}$$

This implies that $w_1, \dots, w_n, u_1, \dots, u_m$ spans V. Thus, $V$ is finite-dimensional.


## 16.
Suppose $T \in \mathcal{L}(V, W)$ and $T$ is injective.  
Then, $\text{dim null }T = 0$.  
Hence, $\text{dim range } T = \text{dim V}$ by the fundamental theorem of linear maps.     
Since $\text{range } T$ is a subspace of $W$, then $\text{dim range T} \leq \text{dim } W$.  
Hence, $\text{dim }V \leq \text{dim } W$.

Suppose $\text{dim }V \leq \text{dim } W$.  
Let $u_1,\dots,u_m$ be a basis for $V$ and $v_1,\dots,v_n$ be a basis for $W$. Then $m \leq n$.

Define $T: V \rightarrow W$ as
$$
T(a_1u_1+\dots+a_mu_m) = a_1v_1+\dots+a_mv_m
$$
This map exists by the linear map lemma.  

Suppose $v \in V$ and $Tv = 0$, then 
$$\begin{align*}
T(a_1u_1+\dots+a_mu_m) &= 0 \qquad a_i \in \mathbb{F} \\
a_1v_1+\dots+a_mv_m &= 0
\end{align*}$$
Since $v_1,\dots,v_m$ are linearly independent, then $a_1 = \dots = a_m = 0$, implying that $v = 0$. Hence, $\text{null } T = \{0\}$. Thus, $T$ is injective. 



## 17.
Suppose $T \in \mathcal{L}(V, W)$ and $T$ is surjective. Then, $\text{range }T = W$.

By the fundamental theorem of linear maps,
$$\begin{align*}
\text{dim }V &= \text{dim null T} + \text{dim range }T \\
&= \text{dim null }T + \text{dim }W
\end{align*}$$
Hence, $\text{dim }V \geq \text{dim }W$.

Suppose $\text{dim }V \geq \text{dim }W$.  
Let $u_1,\dots,u_m$ be a basis for $V$ and $v_1,\dots,v_n$ be a basis for $W$. Then $m \geq n$.

Define $T: V \rightarrow W$ as
$$\begin{align*}
T(u_i) &= v_i \qquad \text{for }i = 1,\dots,n \\
T(u_i) &= 0 \qquad \text{for }i = n+1,\dots,m
\end{align*}$$

This map exists by the linear map lemma. Furthermore, since the image of $T$ spans all of $W$. The map is surjective by construction. Thus, there exists a surjective map when $\text{dim }V \geq \text{dim }W$.




