## 1.
$\text{range }T$ represents the number of basis vectors in $V$ that are mapped to linearly independent vectors in $W$. Therefore, $\text{range }T$ corresponds to the number of linearly independent columns in $M(T)$.

There are at least $\text{range }T$ linearly independent columns in $M(T)$, and these columns must have at least one nonzero entry. If a column had all zero entries, this would imply that the corresponding basis vector in $V$ is mapped to the zero vector in $W$, which imply that the vector is in $\text{null }T$, reducing $\text{dim range }T$.

Thus, $M(T)$ must have at least $\text{dim range }T$ nonzero entries.

## 3.
### a.
Suppose $S,T \in \mathcal{L}(V, W)$. 
Let $M(S) = A$, $M(T) = B$

For each $v_k \in V$,
$$
S(v_k) = \sum_{j=1}^{m}A_{jk}w_j
$$

Similarly for $T$,
$$
T(v_k) = \sum_{j=1}^{m}B_{jk}w_j
$$

Applying $(S+T)$ to each $v_k$,
$$\begin{align*}
(S+T)(v_k) &= S(v_k)+T(v_k) \\
&= \sum_{j=1}^{m}A_{jk}w_j+\sum_{j=1}^{m}B_{jk}w_j \\
&= \sum_{j=1}^{m}(A_{jk}+B_{jk})w_j
\end{align*}$$

Thus, $M(S+T)$ is the $m$ by $n$ matrix whose entry in row $j$, column $k$ is equals $A_{jk}+B_{jk}$, as desired.

### b.
Suppose $T \in \mathcal{L}(V, W)$. 
Let $M(T) = A$.

For each $v_k \in V$,
$$
T(v_k) = \sum_{j=1}^{m}A_{jk}w_j
$$

Applying $\lambda T$ to each $v_k$,
$$\begin{align*}
(\lambda T)(v_k) &= T(\lambda v_k) \\
&= \sum_{j=1}^{m}A_{jk}(\lambda w_j) \\
&= \sum_{j=1}^{m}(\lambda A_{jk})w_j \\
\end{align*}$$

Thus, $M(\lambda T)$ is the $m$ by $n$ matrix whose entry in row $j$, column $k$ is equals $\lambda A_{jk}$, as desired.


## 5.
Let $v_1,\dots,v_n$ be a basis for $V$, then $\text{dim }V = n$.  
Let $w_1,\dots,w_r$ be a basis for $\text{range }T$, then $\text{dim range }T = r$.  
The basis $w_1,\dots,w_r$ can be extended to a basis for $W$, $w_1,\dots,w_r,w_{r+1},\dots,w_m$.

Define $T$ as,
$$\begin{align*}
Tv_k &= w_k \qquad for\ k =1,\dots,r \\
Tv_k &= 0 \qquad for\ k =r+1,\dots,n
\end{align*}$$


This map is well-defined and exists by the linear map lemma. From the definition of the matrix of a linear map, this implies that the entry at row $k$, column $k$ is $1$ for $k=1,\dots,r$, and all other entries $0$ for $k=r+1,\dots,n$. Thus, there exists a basis of $V$ and a basis of $W$ such that with respect to these bases, all
entries of $M(T)$ are $0$ except that the entries in row $k$, column $k$, equal $1$ if
$1 \leq k \leq \text{dim range } T$.


## 8.
Suppose $A$ is an $m$-by-$n$ matrix and $B$ is an $n$-by-$p$ matrix.
The definition of matrix multiplication states that
$$
(AB)_{jk}=A_{j1}B_{1k}+\dots+A_{jn}B_{nk}
$$

$(AB)_{j\centerdot}$ and $A_{j\centerdot}B$ are both $1$-by-$p$ matrix. If $1 \leq k \leq p$, then the entry in column $k$ of $(AB)_{j\centerdot}$ is the left side of the equation and the entry in column $k$ of $A_{j\centerdot}B$ is the right side of the equation. Thus, $(AB)_{j\centerdot} = A_{j\centerdot}B$ as desired.
